Where to Search for Co-ops and Jobs
Whether you are looking for a work integrated learning (field experience, co-op placement) or a job opportunity, you have many search options. 

RRC Polytech
Career Services has two sites that are directed specifically toward RRC Polytech students and alumni. Their news and events page is the best place to find information about upcoming local recruitment and job fairs. 

Career Bridge
Career Services hosts Career Bridge to help students find placements and job opportunities. Many of these are available exclusively for RRC Polytechnic students. 

They also host opportunities such as Riipen/LevelUp which offers short-term, remote work projects that can give you paid work experience.

Work-Integrated Learning (WIL)
Many programs have a Work-Integrated Learning (WIL) course to support students during their co-op, field experience, or industry project. These programs usually also have a coordinator who you can work with to help you develop your Job Ready Communication or set up your own WIL.

Other Sites
Job Bank
The Government of Canada's Job Bank is a national employment service where you can search job postings by city across Canada. You can also access career planning resources and review useful National Occupational Codes (NOC). This is an excellent site that provides trend analysis for occupations, wages, and industry news and events. It also gives detailed information about the work setting and conditions that you can expect.

Learn how to use the filters and limiters in this video, "How to Search for Job Opportunities".

   

Indeed
This site is huge! You can search for local job postings, company reviews, and salary guides. In their own words, "Indeed is the #1 job site in the world with over 250M unique visitors every month. Indeed strives to put job seekers first, giving them free access to search for jobs, post resumes, and research companies. Every day, we connect millions of people to new opportunities." 

Social Media
Most organizations use social media like LinkedIn, Facebook or Twitter. Which one is right for your industry?

LinkedIn
LinkedIn is the most well-known professional networking site. It let's you search for jobs, read about and share industry news, build a professional network and find the latest job postings. 

Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Etc.
Follow the online presence of a few organizations you want to work for to hear their latest news and even learn about job postings.

The Hidden Job Market
A huge amount of job opportunities are not advertised often because it's easier for employers to look at internal candidates first or they want to attract candidates directly connected to the industry.  

Monitoring or joining many of the above resources and sites are great ways to access this hidden job market.   

Online Presence
Maintaining a social media presence is a proactive way to let people know what you are doing and what motivates you. This will also alert recruiters and professional networks that you are available and interested in working.   

Word of Mouth 
Advertising the fact that you are looking for a co-op position or a job opportunity with your program instructors and coordinators, friends and family is another way to crack the hidden job market. The more people who know you are looking, the better!    

Cold Calling & Emailing
Cold calling is contacting an employer directly to inquire about potential openings and/or express your interest in working there. Absolutely, there are employers in Manitoba who would be willing to take on the right Co-op student but haven't posted anything on Career Bridge or their own website. If you are able to make contact with one, you may be able to wow them with your enthusiasm and initiative, and make a case for why they should bring you on for your Co-op term. 

A common strategy for cold calling and emailing is:

identify an appropriate contact at the organization. You may be able to do this by using your network, LinkedIn, or through a contact list on their website. If you don't have any luck with these, you could use an employer's careers, HR, or general email address.
prepare a resume and cover letter (try a networking cover letter, rather than an application cover letter, which is used to apply for an advertised position).
send your resume and cover letter to your contact along with a short note, making sure that you detail your co-op dates and other key information.
if you don't hear anything back after a few business days, phone the employer to follow up.
Ask to speak with your contact (or someone in HR, if you sent your email to their careers or HR email address).
Identify yourself and ask if they have a moment to speak with you, or if you should call back another time.
Ask them if they have had a chance to review your email about potential Co-op placements.
Be ready to share some information about yourself and explain how hiring you as a Co-op student will benefit them- see The Elevator Pitch for details.
Visit this University of Toronto page for more information about Cold Calling & Emailing.